========================
Contribute documentation
========================

This document briefly explains the process of collecting, building and contributing the documentation
to OpenLMIS v3.

Build process
-------------

The developer documentation for OpenLMISv3 is scattered across various repositories. Moreover, some
of the artifacts are dynamically generated, based on the current codebase. All that documentation
is collected by a single script. In order to collect a new document to be able to include it in the
developer documentation, it must be placed in the *collect-docs.py* script. The documentation is built
after every push event and is triggered by GitHub webhook. It then gets published via ReadTheDocs at http://docs.openlmis.org.
The static documentation files and the build configuration is kept on the openlmis-ref-distro repository, in the
*docs* directory. It is also possible to rebuild and upload the documentation to Read the Docs manually, by
running the *OpenLMIS-documentation* Jenkins job.

Contributing
------------

Depending on the part of the documentation that you wish to contribute to, a specific document in one
of the `GitHub repositories <https://github.com/OpenLMIS>`_ must be edited. The list below explains where the
particular pieces of the documentation are fetched from, in order to be able to locate and edit them.

**Developer docs - Services**:
The documentation for each service is taken from the *README.md* file located on that repository.

**Developer docs - Style guide**:
This is the code style guide, located in the openlmis-template-service in file *STYLE-GUIDE.md*.

**Developer docs - Testing guide**:
This is the document that outlines the strategy and rules for test development. It is located in the
openlmis-template-service in *TESTING.md* file.

**Developer docs - Error Handling**:
This document outlines how errors should be managed in Services and how they should be reported through API
responses.

**ERD schema**:
The ERD schema for certain services is generated by Jenkins. The static file that links to the schema is
located together with the documentation and the schemas itself are built and kept on Jenkins as build
artifacts. The link always points to the ERD schema of the latest, successful build.

**UI Styleguide**:
The configuration of the styleguide is located on the openlmis-requisition-refUI. The actual Styleguide is
generated by the Jenkins job and uploaded to the gh-pages branch on the same repository.

**API documentation**:
This contains the link to the Swagger documentation for the API endpoints. It is built by the Jenkins job and
kept as a build artifact, based on the content of the RAML file. The link always points to the API
documentation of the latest successful build.
